modules/home-manager/files/opencode/commands/diff-review.md, before:

# Code Review

Thoroughly review the following git diff of my uncommitted changes.

Use **ONLY** `git --no-pager diff --cached -U30` to get the diff to review.
Do **NOT** check for unstaged git changes.

## Review Scope

- **Only review the CHANGED lines** (additions, modifications, deletions)
- Consider the context around changes but don't review unchanged code
- Assume existing code (shown with context) is already approved

## Review Criteria

- **Bugs & Logic Errors**: Any issues that could cause failures
- **Security vulnerabilities**: Potential security risks
- **Performance issues**: Inefficiencies or bottlenecks
- **Code quality**: Readability, maintainability, best practices
- **Missing edge cases**: Unhandled scenarios
- **Error handling**: Proper error management and logging

## Output Format Requirements

For EVERY suggestion, provide the fix in unified diff format:

1. Use ```diff code blocks
2. Each diff should show the file path as a comment on the first line
3. Show removed lines with - prefix (in red)
4. Show added lines with + prefix (in green)
5. Include enough context (3 lines before/after changes)
6. Add a comment line starting with # explaining the change
7. After each suggestion place a markdown horizontal rule

Example format:

---

## Issue 1

- filepath: src/utils/userHelper.js
- Explanation: A brief explanation of the problem

```diff
- const x = getUserData();
+ const userData = getUserData();

# Fix: Add null check to prevent runtime error
  function processUser(user) {
+   if (!user) {
+     throw new Error('User object is required');
+   }
    return user.name.toUpperCase();
  }
```

---

Structure your response as:
🔴 Critical Issues
[List critical problems with diff fixes]
🟡 Improvements
[List suggested improvements with diff fixes]
🟢 Good Practices
[Brief list of what was done well - no diffs needed]
📊 Summary
• Overall Rating: [1-10]  • Lines changed: [approximate count]  • Priority: [High/Medium/Low] for addressing these issues

If There are no changes, respond with "No changes detected" and a dad-joke about programming.
nsure every code change is shown as a diff for easy application.

Commit message:

refactor(opencode): migrate agent and command definitions to external files with YAML frontmatter
Migrate opencode configuration from inline definitions in the Nix file to external markdown files with YAML frontmatter. Add YAML frontmatter to existing agents and commands, create new agent and command files (code-reviewer, lookup, slop, yeet), and remove legacy commit command definitions.

modules/home-manager/files/opencode/commands/diff-review.md, after:

---
description: Perform a comprehensive code review of recent changes
agent: build
---

# Code Review

Thoroughly review the following git diff of my uncommitted changes.

Use **ONLY** `git --no-pager diff --cached -U30` to get the diff to review.
Do **NOT** check for unstaged git changes.

## Review Scope

- **Only review the CHANGED lines** (additions, modifications, deletions)
- Consider the context around changes but don't review unchanged code
- Assume existing code (shown with context) is already approved

## Review Criteria

- **Bugs & Logic Errors**: Any issues that could cause failures
- **Security vulnerabilities**: Potential security risks
- **Performance issues**: Inefficiencies or bottlenecks
- **Code quality**: Readability, maintainability, best practices
- **Missing edge cases**: Unhandled scenarios
- **Error handling**: Proper error management and logging

## Output Format Requirements

For EVERY suggestion, provide the fix in unified diff format:

1. Use ```diff code blocks
2. Each diff should show the file path as a comment on the first line
3. Show removed lines with - prefix (in red)
4. Show added lines with + prefix (in green)
5. Include enough context (3 lines before/after changes)
6. Add a comment line starting with # explaining the change
7. After each suggestion place a markdown horizontal rule

Example format:

---

## Issue 1

- filepath: src/utils/userHelper.js
- Explanation: A brief explanation of the problem

```diff
- const x = getUserData();
+ const userData = getUserData();

# Fix: Add null check to prevent runtime error
  function processUser(user) {
+   if (!user) {
+     throw new Error('User object is required');
+   }
    return user.name.toUpperCase();
  }
```

---

Structure your response as:
🔴 Critical Issues
[List critical problems with diff fixes]
🟡 Improvements
[List suggested improvements with diff fixes]
🟢 Good Practices
[Brief list of what was done well - no diffs needed]
📊 Summary
• Overall Rating: [1-10]  • Lines changed: [approximate count]  • Priority: [High/Medium/Low] for addressing these issues

If There are no changes, respond with "No changes detected" and a dad-joke about programming.
sure every code change is shown as a diff for easy application.
